[Applause]
foreign
for being here tonight and welcome to
Sunny Seattle springtime
um thank you I've been walking around
the parka so I'm a huge fan of both your
books um and I I actually probably
helped many bookstores when um Emperor
came out because I I was chairing the
the hutch board at the time and I sent
it to many of those members because I
thought it was such an acute a wonderful
description of how cancer is sort of an
autobio biography but tell us about the
relationship between sort of at one
point you said the sequel and the
prequel and then how one led to the
other in this new book the gene so um
first of all thank you
um I'm a big Seattle fan I take every
opportunity to come over come over
um so the gene
um is you know when I finished writing
um the emperor formalities and and as
you know um Ken Burns and I worked on a
documentary
um on the book I thought I was sort of
done
um that I would be there was a there was
a there was a um the the emperable
analogies won the guardian book award
um it was called The Guardian first book
prize and then someone very snarkily
wrote a review saying uh oh maybe this
should be also renamed the guardian only
book prize
um because you know they're people who
write one book and they're done and it's
and it could be an incredibly important
contribution and but that's what they
that they've that they've done and
achieved um and I would be very proud to
be that human being but
um
the question that was left over from
that book from from Emperor was the
question
if cancer is the Distortion of genetic
normalcy
then what instructs normalcy in the
first place what tells ourselves to be
what they are what tells our bodies to
be
um how they are
um so that was the the the question left
over what is the code what is the um
code of instructions
and then
um it's something began to happen in the
world that I could not ignore and that
is that we began to develop Technologies
um to intervene on the code of
instructions
so uh I I like to write books when
every book that I've written sort of
answers one question and the question
that came up was very obvious what would
what happens to a machine that begins to
recognize and write its own manual
um
what if human beings were that machine
if I
um if if your genome was printed on a
as a book form
um it would be 70 or 75 full sets of the
insight to Beta Botanica
so every wall for one human being every
wall of this
Auditorium would be lined with a with an
encyclopedia
and if you picked out if you went to
set 45
volume 17 Page 342 it would say a c t g
c t t GCC and so forth right so and
that would be but what's astonishing to
me so it would it it it remains largely
inscrutable to human beings but
obviously you're the first cell in your
body knows how to build you out of that
instructions and consider that for a
moment it's of course and it's it's an
incredible idea now that is not to say
that genes are the only ways that we
ultimately
make up our forms and
functions and identities their genes
intersect with environments genes
intersect with chance this is not to
minimize the role of environments in
chance but it is to say that there is a
code of Master instructions and the
difference
between you and yourself the relevant
between you and your sibling
that might have who might have
cystic fibrosis
whose life will certainly be changed
forever because of the inheritance of
that statistic two Mutant versions of
the cystic fibrosis genes in that
encyclopedia is two words
that's a relevant difference the
difference the relevant difference
between you
and
um someone a sibling who happens to have
inherited in that family
um the the mutated version of the
Huntington's disease Gene that will
certainly
cause a lethal neurodegenerative disease
in that sibling say the relevant
difference is one page
of that volume
of encyclopedias
and and what if what if we began to
change the information what if we began
to number one read the information we'll
talk a little bit about that
what if we began to read that
information
and what if we began to write that
information what if I developed began to
develop technologies that could say go
to page 347 and volume 36.
erase one word and change it for another
word
uh well that word could be the mutant
Barack ob1 Gene that would set up your
family for a increased propensity for
breast cancer
and that's a maybe a wonderful thing
maybe this is one wonderful thing about
the the promise of these new
technologies but what if that was a word
that um
specified height
or some more diffuse aspect of of who we
are so
these these are not sort of abstractions
because in the last five or ten years as
many of you know we'll talk a little bit
more about it we began to invent
technologies that allow us to do
precisely that to begin not in not not
in completion but to begin to read the
human genome
um and to begin to make deliberate
changes in the human genome we can begin
to write rewrite
the code of instructions that we have
and so that was the second piece and the
final piece and I'll I'll
talk a little bit more about that in a
second the final piece is that none of
this is an abstraction for me either I
mean I have a family where
um I have a family history that's uh
live the only word I can say is blighted
with the history of mental illness
genetic mental illness Crossing now
three generations I have a cousin as we
speak institution permanently
institutionalized with schizophrenia
so these questions were not sort of you
know far away I'm a cancer physician
these weren't things that I was thinking
about in the in the great distant future
I was thinking very personally should I
sequence my own genome I have two
daughters 12 and seven
um
what if in 10 years from now we began to
get the information that would tell you
about the propensities of each of these
two daughters to develop this this
illness and Matt put yourself in put
yourself in these positions what if your
two children and You Begin began to
obtain the information that would tell
you about their future propensities what
if one of the children
were to were to have that propensity
both of them perfectly well but you just
but you knew
that only one of them would develop at a
with a 10 certainty
small certainty if you knew that that
one of them had a high heightened risk
for developing a mental illness
would it change who you were what you
know would it change your relationship
with your two children
uh who are at this point of time say
completely healthy um what if you know I
mean I I began to speak to to families
in which again their two daughters one
daughter has the mutant bracha one you
know has inherited the the brca1 genetic
mutation that sets that daughter up for
a future history
of breast and ovarian cancer
their two daughters both you know 6 and
12 years old but only one of them
carries this propensity
and of course the mother says to me that
their relationship with these two
daughters has changed completely
um but now imagine this not across one
gene
but across hundreds of genes thousands
of genes imagine being able to read this
information imagine being able to want
to the aspire to correct this
information
you know these Technologies
um that we're beginning to approach
will make
uh Technologies like social media and
Airbnb and Uber seem like
Child's Play
so I mean so this was that's the Genesis
of the book and and I think um I mean
you you write in such an extraordinary
way where we sort of tell the story
chronologically but at the end and maybe
I'm getting to the punch line it seemed
like you were really trying to make a
fairly compelling case about normalcy
and what is normal and I think at
normalcy is the antithesis of evolution
and and I'd love to explore that a
little bit more because I think you made
some profound comments about sickness
and wellness and how we see aberration
and normalcy and and that seemed to be
very
um so you know one of the questions that
I take up in the book which which has to
be taken up so just to give a little bit
of background about all of this um I was
on stage the gene was the nih's uh book
book for the year so the the National
Institute of Health picks one book um
and and it's launched this new program
in which through the entire Institute
and all of the members they pick one
book and I don't know what book it's
going to be next year but but but the
but the point is to to coalesce a series
of conversations around the future of
Health that Gene was I was fortunate to
have that and so I went to the NIH and
Francis Collins
um uh and I were on stage and Francis
said
um no jokes it said what do you think
what do you think the first normal
feature that we'll intervene on in in
the human genome and I said since if you
ask me completely honestly it's going to
be height
um I think within the next time not a
joke I think this within the next 10
years we will begin to ask the question
should we start intervening on human
height
um in societies where there's a premium
placed on human height
um
and if it seems as if it's some kind of
far away future
the capacity for genetic diagnosis has
already dramatically altered societies
think of countries like India and China
where because of gender selection
fundamentally a genetic selection
societies have now you know powerfully
switched
um powerfully switched
gender ratios in places there are 700
women to a thousand men
can you imagine the destabilization that
is caused a human history has not seen
such a society in its in its past so
this is just to give you an example
these are not far away ideas that are
that exist in some kind of vacuum this
is now
um so so your question was you know what
about normalcy what about
um what are my thoughts about it um
one thing that I began to understand
when I read read when I started reading
about the history and this is obviously
was inspired also by my own personal
history is the question of what is
normal
um who defines what normal is and who
defines where suffering begins
um what is extraordinary suffering um is
suffering is it is it extraordinary
suffering to be a woman in a society
where there are 700 female children to a
thousand male children is that
extraordinary suffering
um
where do we where do we draw that lines
and you you created sort of a a
framework a triangle in which we should
think through some of those questions
and ethicals and I think that's very
absolutely the triangle came to me was
very late in the book I I kept banging
my head against uh the question of how
do we know what where do we operate in
the next 10 years 20 years what will we
decided so I'll tell you the triangle
and I'll let you think about it
um
so the question that's behind the
triangle is under what circumstances
should we begin to intervene on the
human genome
um and it seemed to me that there were
to me uh there were three criteria
um one criteria I've talked about
already one edge of the triangle is
extraordinary suffering
so
um I'll come back to that but but the
question is you know diseases illnesses
that cause extraordinary suffering
um the second criteria is a criteria of
certainty uh I I call it penetrance
which is to say that the gene must cause
a disease
most human conditions most human traits
are there's no clear one-to-one link
between the Gene and and and your
function reform most human traits are
governed by multiple genes
um height is a good example and so
multiple genes govern uh who we end up
being
um and so at least at the first at the
first outset there should be a a
powerful
relationship between the Gene and the
feature we shouldn't be intervening on
genes or genetic information where the
link between that Gene and the and the
trait or characteristic is weak or loose
because we will have all sorts of
unintended consequences so that's the
second sort of certainty penetrance
mapping a a kind of powerful
relationship between the Gene and the
future
and the third one which emerges from the
history of eugenics
from from Nazi Eugenics from you know
the United States in the United States
is that we've got to let this happen
without State mandate
um without coercion so a lack of
coercion
um uh would would be an important
feature um that there should be no
justifiable coercion or justifiable it
should it should lie within the bounds
of of freedom and reason
so
I don't need to tell this audience that
all three of these are questions where
the words are demand a a deep kind of
moral thinking who defines extraordinary
suffering
right who who who says what suffering is
and where do you draw that line
um
uh who tells us what the exact you know
where is the cutoff
for the propensity of a gene to cause a
problem is it 10 if I were to say to you
you know
um
with uh I found a gene where the um
um which increases as a hypothetical
which increases the risk of breast
cancer
in your child uh by by uh makes it
um you know 175 percent the risk in the
general population
um is that is that the cutoff is that
you know do we say well you know that
really the the diseases has
extraordinary suffering associated with
it so we should really go ahead and
intervene on that and then the third
idea you know what is coercion what is
what is
where do we draw how do we understand
societies which you know
is what's true in the United States that
true in China are they different
metrics so and I mean to that point I
think it was fascinating and sort of
wonderful that you dedicated at least
the book to your mother and to Carrie
buck and and um uh both that might be an
interesting framing I mean why her why
those two women my grandmother and
kerrybach
um uh yep
well so Carrie buck and many of you know
was a woman in the United States
who was diagnosed falsely turned out
with genetic imbecility this was a
powerful moment in the 1920s and 1930s
when Eugenics people think of eugenics
you know the idea that you could make
better Society through genetic
intervention people think that oh it's a
Nazi Germany phenomenon
um but but you know it's absolutely not
and it's important to recognize that
that it's an aspiration that goes right
back to Plato we've we've been aspiring
to change societies through genetic
intervention from the minute we began to
think about heredity in societies long
before the word Gene existed long before
our understanding of societies is
you know as the the the the spread of
genes and Society so this goes way back
um it is one of the fundamental
aspirations to change our societies
through through manipulation of heredity
so
um the idea of eugenics was was
incipient in in writings way back to
Plato it
um
uh it was the the word was born
um through the work of Francis Galton in
in in England and and you know in
England in the in the late 1800s and the
early 1900s to be a Genesis was to be
Progressive the progressive people
um signed up to the idea many many
famous Victorian and post-victorian
progressives were a eugenicists they
wanted to improve societies by by
manipulating heredity
um then this idea metastasizes to the
United States long before Germany
um and it's in the United States that it
sort of reaches a kind of manic
adolescence
um
the
um the
um the idea that you know they're
they're better babies contests around
the United States films are made
um which which are shown to you know
audience of six seven hundred people
um which urge you uh to get your your
family history tested and and and and
and Purge potentially uh uh your your
family of of mental illness epilepsy
um uh things like things like this
imbecility
um so Kerry Buck is is caught in this
Dragnet
um because social reformers want to
eliminate uh imbecility
um so her mother is caught in the dragon
at first and she's you know sent off to
a colony
um Carrie Buck is then also the daughter
um is is then caught in this and also
sent off to the Colony and then the the
state
um the state eugenesis say that we
should sterilize you
um we should make sure that you don't
have any children because of because you
know and and this and the case climbs to
um I'm sort of sitting
sorry
the case climbs to
um the Supreme Court
um and and Oliver Wendell Holmes the the
supposed
um
judicial moderate
opines that three generations of
imbeciles is enough that word enough
according to whom enough where enough
for whom
um but nonetheless carry Buck is
sterilized
to eliminate this genetic blight of
imbecility this is your history this is
my history this is in Virginia in the
1920s this is in this this idea carries
itself off in the you know various parts
of the United States so
um in fact when I first wrote the book
the book began with Carrie buck
um she was the
she carried the book forward first
and when I read that book when I read
that first draft of the book I said God
you know no one's being no one's going
to get through those first Pages
um
so uh so I moved Kerry to to the to her
chronological place not to deny her
historical place so I moved Kerry Buck
to her chronological place in history
because the book started with sort of a
cold slap
um and
generally speaking maybe not the best uh
best way to start a long book uh uh with
a cold slap but um uh so so she moved to
a chronological place but I wanted to
Signal the idea of that chronological
place I want to remind people that you
know here we are talking about
new technologies that will allow us to
change the human genome powerful ways to
control our future and identity and
investigate who we are and where we're
going
but just remember that there was a woman
who paid a steep price
um for these aspirations and Kerry Buck
was not certainly the only character I
mean in fact your books are replete with
sort of many biographies and this book I
mean I loved Mendel and the whole story
of the Monk and you went through Galton
and Watson and Crick and Swanson and
others so when you're writing I mean did
you just stack these stories together I
I I'm always fascinated by how you know
those biographies bring a deep
complicated scientific story to life and
sort of what how do you think about
those stories is this about a science of
great men and women or is it about men
and women who happen to inform great
science
so the way I the way the books are
written yeah
I
like to trace the history of an idea
though that's important to me
um I will talk a little bit about this
the
the prequel and and the book on cancer
is part of a trilogy
which will be completed and then maybe
that will that will end it end the books
right something doubts
um but nonetheless
um
the way I I think about the books that
though certainly the way I learned to
write
um for Emperor is I make a huge uh
chronological diagram of the history of
an idea
um
and in fact you'll find that I that that
some version of the diagram usually at
the end of the book
um there is in the gene if you flip to
the last pages you'll find the history
of the idea and that history of the idea
I make very I ensure that that isn't a
history of an idea in science I want the
history of the idea to be in its
fullness what does human heredity mean
not just in DNA but what does it mean
for culture what does it mean
politically what does it mean how does
how does Nazism itself have to do with
what what does it have to do with this
moment what does
um
is when we personalize uh the question
of you know what how we want our
children to look and feel and B
um what does that mean to society those
are questions so I make a huge linear
map of those of that question and that's
the main work of the book selecting and
removing
those moments
um making saying that's important but
that's not important enough
um obviously these are
complicated choices
then comes the matter of taking that
skeleton and making it into something
readable
um and the only way that it becomes
readable is to find human beings who
carry the story forward
so so what I do then is that I take that
entire story
um and then make a decision at every
juncture of the story who's going to
tell who's going to be the who's going
to tell the story is it going to be a
patient is it going to be me my history
is it going to be Mendel
um is it going to be the first kid who
receives gene therapy
um is it going to be you know we the the
when we talk about
um
uh
whatever Arena that that that that I'm
that I'm talking to it you know
mitochondrial eve uh it's a section in
the book about you know this idea that
all of us are descended from now it
seems if you go backwards it's gone to
one single human being
um
uh how do you tell her story
um do you conjure her up as a character
could she speak that's a decision you
need to make but then you know is that
will that detract from who we want you
know should she be left more as an
abstraction uh more as a as a evocation
so in this book do you have a favorite a
character that's like oh I gotta tell
this I mean kind of fall in love with
yourself
um you know every person uh in the book
I'll I'll give you I'll give you a real
answer but let me just give you some
background I'm not trying to be a weasel
here and trying to make
um so I I try very hard to create a at
least in my own brain a kind of
an empathy or sympathy for every human
being here you know the person who is
driving the gene therapy trials and
makes a terrible mistake The Physician
the doctors will make a terrible mistake
um because they they they they they
really do a bad they screw it up
um in in the first instance
but you want to know why you want to
know why what's driving them that the
you know you want to know what is
driving someone like Wendell Holmes
um to say three generations of imbeciles
is enough
what is driving that anxiety what does
enough mean
um similarly what is driving Watson and
Crick what do they want to find out what
is driving Rosalind Franklin
um she's a great character in the book
um it's so you know so so so so that's
the background to all of this I I go
into these people's lives I read their
letters I read there but but of course
remember I'm doing this because I'm I'm
I'm I'm not a biographer
um actually I'm not a particularly good
biographer what is to me what's
interesting is the idea and the history
of the idea I'm doing this in service of
that chronology of that lineage asking
the question over and over again
so you have a favor do I have a favorite
so
um well you know I'm the the the early
parts of the book tend to tend to live
more in my life because I've lived with
the longest mental is a great favorite
of mine because I went to the monastery
and it shows I think it you know went to
the monastery you know this is I mean
the ironies of all ironies right so um
you have a a monk
um who is studying peas
who is working I went to the Garden the
garden the Pea Garden is smaller than
the stage
right
um from that place emanates
the revolution in genetics
biotechnology
medicine the future of medicine from
this from a plot of land which is
smaller than the stage I you know it's
an astonishing phenomenon and quote
about so Europe you're an uncle a doctor
and a researcher and a writer and knew a
lot about this coming into the the book
and it took you what five five and a
half years I think I read to write this
big surprises when you didn't really
think you thought you knew it and then
suddenly you were surprised himself is a
big surprise you know he's a complex uh
thinker uh obviously and he sort of Lost
in the shadows we think of him as some
kind of uh but his anxieties are are
interesting he's he wants to he he he he
he is
um he fails his exam so this is
um it should it should reassure us
uh he fails his exam most importantly in
biology
um and and also in geology
um you know geology has it has taught
him that the Earth is not static
that there are things that that the
things have happened in the past that
will eventually you know there's a
reason that there's a Gorge here because
the river has cut into the Rock uh not
because God decided that that there was
this there would be a Gorge it's because
a natural process has occurred over time
that has allowed this this thing to cut
into the Rock So Mendel is an
interesting character because he fails
all of this all of these exams but but
what's something what's very beautiful
about him and you read him when you read
him what's beautiful about him is that
he's a very tender experimentalist
he just wants to he has a small question
and from this small question spins out
like this crazy tornado
um this idea
um which you can't which of course he
doesn't fully understand in fact Mendel
dies without
you know it's one of the it's one of the
it's one of the papers that's that's
barely read
um the there's a there's a quote which
says that you know Mendel's paper
generated the most astonishing three
decades of Silence in the history of in
the history of science no one reads him
it's greatly
so here in Seattle just a couple more
questions for me and then I'll ask the
audience but here in Seattle and and
certainly in the work that path does we
think a lot about global health and
particularly how do we make sure Health
reaches the poorest and most vulnerable
people in the world and sometimes when I
think about sort of the work and Gene
and genetic we're really at a place
where it's sort of not focused on the
poorest or most vulnerable people how
does how do we make that match work and
when will that happen
well so so we were talking a little bit
in the in the back the the idea that
that genes genomes Etc are are things
that are happening in some kind of
isolated community in of of of the
wealthy is soon going to be no longer
true
um
vaccines
we've been making vaccines using genetic
Technologies now for several years
um it's no longer and it's opened up an
enormous arena in vaccination
um I gave another example you know as we
speak we're learning to manipulate the
biosphere
um
this month maybe next month there will
be the the initial phases of two
experiments to manipulate insects
mosquitoes
um thereby trying to create genetically
modified people already created them but
within our lifetime we'll be we'll see
the release of genetically modified
mosquitoes
um that will uh that may block the uh
the transmission of diseases such as
malaria
um in the world so
um and of course uh gender selection is
is in fact a um a phenomenon very much
part of um of the developing world so
um this is not technology that is
sitting in some kind of Silo in in in in
in in in the Laboratories of Seattle and
San Francisco and New York this is
already spread into the world uh we're
already part of it
um and in fact it it's released in the
developing World it has has occurred
simultaneously
um as it's as its influence in in the
developed World
um and so a good chunk of the book in
fact almost a third is sort of dedicated
toward the future I mean and which again
from a sort of a biographical point of
view is quite interesting that you you
so thank you for pointing this out
because I mean people say this is a gene
is a very it was a different book to
write
um it's a it's an odd book because the
it's it's it's it's it's it's front
loaded
um Emperor was backloaded
um genus you have to make your way
through the science first
and
um I I only say this because if you want
to participate
and you have to participate in the
debate of who gets to control these
instructions you have to know the
vocabulary you have to know that piece
of History you need to know the Nazi
Eugenics you need to know DNA you need
to know what all of these words mean you
need to know the word crispr you need to
know the word uh you need to know why
these Technologies are relevant what
genome is what Gene sequencing is
but then what was interesting about this
book is that
a third of the book very perceptively
you're pointing out is about the future
so
um I implore people who read this book
get the vocabulary but then read the
section the section on Race for instance
um how do we know that we have races
um what does it mean if I would tell you
that in fact the genetic distinction
between between
um two human beings from the
of from Africa
is greater
than than a human being from one part of
Africa and is supposedly white white
person if there's no the The genome is
providing a radical platform for
equality
um
the we can't debate that platform right
so so but we but if if we if if we don't
know the vocab if we don't know the
words we don't know the facts in this
post-fac universe
um
you will be misled you will use the word
race incorrectly and others will come
and manipulate that word just like the
manipulated the word Jain or imbecile
and they will convince you of wrong
things there is that the genome is is is
it provides us the human genome provides
us with a profound and radical idea of
equality we're a young species we're
very young there's not so many
differences between us and we can
discover the differences and we have to
figure out what it means to categorize
those differences and and are you uh I
mean one thing that worries me is you
know we can talk about the conference
that set up the sort of on on
recombinant DNA and how do we put a
moratorium on certain experimentation
but the fact is we live in a world where
you know you mentioned China is already
going off and doing certain things and
other people are going to take advantage
of these various rules how how confident
are you are that we're going to as a
species actually put rules around this
stuff well I think we'll have to put
rules around it I think people you know
the the idea that you can this is a
free-for-all is going to be a problem
but the problem but the question is the
rules will be different for different
people and we have to come to some kind
of consensus because you cannot have a
society in which in China you're allowed
to intervene on certain kinds of uh
uh genetic uh variations
whereas those are not intervenable in
the United States that would be very
that would be that would be it that
would be a tough Society to live in
because people would start asking the
question but we are human beings aren't
we why is it that you know that that you
can do this in China which you can't do
in the United States so there will be
some important convergences I think
they're important but but
but the only way you can get to that
convergence is if if all of us know the
vocabulary so again read the section on
identity read the sections on Race read
the section on what we know and we don't
know about gender identity or sexual
identity
um in the book because that's the the
questions that our children I think
these would be questions that our
children
um will be debating very deeply
um should we open up the uh the box of
of genetically modified organisms what
we don't exactly know what to do about
uh how to contain them
sure I mean you know let's be open about
that conversation we have we we have we
have hunger to solve we have malaria to
solve
um so it's you you can't be nihilistic
and say it's all bad uh oh you know that
genetic stuff is all all bad
um we've been manipulating human beings
we're manipulating genes forever
we just have now acquired
really unprecedented power to inspect
um and to survey and to manipulate genes
and you point out repeatedly that we're
at the very beginning of that power to
you and so let's open it up to questions
I think people know to come forward and
state your name please make the
questions questions
or I'll make them questions yeah hello
thank you for coming my name is Welby
Cox I'm a oncology hematology doctor
educated here at the hatchimal UW when
you started talking about
um
intervening to help prevent suffering
most of the patients I see or have seen
in my life were oncology patients the
ones that I've seen that I'm so
impressed by their suffering have been
Sickle Cell patients and that's a
disease we can we know how to diagnose
we know the genetics
um could you speak a little bit about
is there intervention going on trying to
cure
sickle cell disease at the genetic level
so it's important question so sickle
cell disease
um
[Music]
very important example so sickle cell
disease I I think and is is likely to be
one of the very first diseases that we
tackle genetically so as you know very
well I'm a hematologist as well I've
spent my lifetime
in in the in the wards in in New York
City and in in Boston and every time
virtually every night there would be a
young man or young woman with a Sickle
Cell pain crisis
and as you know
um the the the consequences
um you know Ripple out in so many
different ways the uh the psychological
consequences of having a disease as a
child the narcotic
often the the the pain control is so
complicated so what if we just went
inside in blood stem cells and and
switched that you know to change that
that genetic uh variation and in fact as
as as as you know those are the one of
the first things that that is highest on
the list of the trials that that
um that that are going on right now it
would be surprising to me if we don't
have a solution to this within the next
10 odd years to sort of replace
um stem cells of sickle cell patients
and correct the genetic mutations now
the one thing that I remind people is
that and as you know very well there's a
Twist to the story The Twist to the
story is that we think and there's some
evidence now uh has accumulated over
many years that that Sickle Cell
genetic variation emerged as a
resistance mechanism for malaria
um so that's just a reminder that
um that that that in human history in
human evolution things that become
disease in one context can have very
different
um uh
it's a complex
what I'm trying to describe is a complex
idea read about it in the in the book in
other places but of course uh it reminds
us that that holding grasping the
holding the horns of evolution and and
changing genetic information in humans
is is you know great for people who
suffer from awful diseases but there's
an evolutionary history that's carried
in the in in that disease itself
sometimes not always it's a very
non-linear it's a very knowledge process
yes sir yes doctor my name is Victor
Swann and thank you for your book it's
just extremely readable
enlightening and thought-provoking thank
you my question is you know looking at
the broad Suite of evolution and the
genome
are things really happening really
quickly now with things like crispr and
cast 9 and could you speak to that at
all yeah so so
um the question has to do with crispr
and cas9 I I usually take a step back
from this and say Chrisman cas9 are just
one are two examples of the related
systems but it's just one example of a
system of a series of ways that we begin
beginning to intervene on genomes
um we're learning more about I mean you
know we started my own laboratory
started using this in cancer about
four years ago and I was astonished of
how at how easy it is
um to use
um we're just beginning so Christmas
referred to to Technologies and and you
could read them rebutter in the book
they refer to technologies that allow us
to make intentional uh deliberate edits
in the in genomes uh including the human
genome
um just to remind us that was very
difficult years ago
um five years ago ten years ago you
could make mutations but you couldn't
tell a mutation you couldn't tell a
cosmic ray go and change just the Brack
of one Gene and revert the Baraka one
mutation to its uh wild type variation
you couldn't tell a cosmic or an x-ray
to do that
through a kind of peculiar and I
describe it through kind of peculiar
wormhole in biology we've suddenly
landed on technologies that allow us to
do exactly what I just said go into
page 347. and erase a word
um
uh on page 347 and change it potentially
change it to a different word
um very early days in all of this but of
course you can understand what the what
the what the power of that of those
Technologies can and will be so
um
there are some unexpected surprises in
fact we're going to hear about it
tomorrow from someone but some expect
surprises but things are moving right
along with these Technologies the final
piece I'll I'll remind you of is that as
I said this is a suite of Technologies
um we're also synthesizing
um scientists such synthesizing as we
speak longer and longer and longer
pieces of DNA and ultimately they'll be
synthesizing chromosome sizes pieces of
DNA so in other words we will be making
synthetic human chromosomes
um if we start doing that
then you know we can write anything
you can write your name into your you
know in some codified form
um into into your own genome and ensure
that it would be carried forever into
your children and your grandchildren
your great-grandchildren so again not a
you know not not to trivialize this idea
synthetic DNA crispr all of this stuff
we will see this happening in our
lifetimes
um so
um learn the vocabulary learn the learn
what it means
um understand the biology because you if
you don't participate in the
conversation someone else will
great I promises in a statement it's
actually a question
um but as we approach the beginning of
human-driven evolution as opposed to
sort of nature driven Evolution and
darwinian sense
um it seems we'll be driven by a very
different set of rules and
um
desires I admire that you say that we
can and should pursue consensus but
everything about human history says we
are going to pursue something similar to
profit so I'd just like to hear your
thoughts about how we can be very
realistic about that future which
includes a likelihood that we will be
pursuing profit from everything we learn
including crispr cast not in gene
editing you talk about that in the book
yeah so um
so I mean the the longer discussion is
in the book so I would encourage you to
read it's a long list it's a pages and
pages of uh of discussion in the book
but the question is a very provocative
one which is you know it's great to say
in principle that you'll get consensus
it will be driven by consensus but
um ultimately personalize uh if we
personalize Eugenics if you personalize
these aspirations to have
um children who are free from diseases
but also
um enhance their features
um what would what would happen
um so just to tell you where we are
um four five six weeks ago
um
the National Academy of Sciences in the
United States
had a panel
held a panel and decided that
for the first time it would be okay
permissible
for
um
human beings to begin to make genetic
interventions on human sperm and eggs
um
that's a big deal
the criteria they use actually very
similar to the creature in the book
um they point out this idea of
extraordinary suffering they pinpoint
the idea of of
um
penetrance or or causality or Etc and
um they don't go into the the arena of
intervention sorry freedom but rather
they talk about justifiable Alternatives
there should be no other justifiable
alternative uh to the therapy being
pursued in other words you know if you
can treat it medically in other ways do
so but if you cannot if there's no other
way to do it
um we we
it it said that it was permissible to
consider
um intervening on the human genome
um in sperm and eggs in in the germline
of the human genome
um that is step one of trying to get a
consensus in all of this
um but you're absolutely right
as we personalize this and as they're
driven by profits a different question
but as they're driven by personal
motivations
um it is important to remember that
personalizing Eugenics is really no
different in in its ultimate end as
state mandated Eugenics it just changes
the locus I believe of the behavior the
locus of the behavior changes from the
state that believes certain goods are
certain kinds of peoples are better than
certain others and essentially removes
that Locus from the state and replaces
it in the locus of the individual
allowing you to decide who the who the
right kind of person is going to be that
you want to have as your child
um but the end point of that of of while
it shifts the locus of responsibility
the end point comes to the same which is
to allow people to have make decisions
about who they want you know who who we
want uh children to be just just I was
asked a question I just want to point
this out uh importantly
I was asked a question before I just
want to point out that
it seems that we're in a kind of infancy
of all of this in fact early attempts to
predict human futures from from Gene
sequencing have been very successful
with single genes Sickle Cell cystic
fibrosis breast bracha 1.
but as we sequence more and most
importantly as we store that data and we
begin to use artificial intelligence and
deep learning
algorithms to inspect those genomes we
will begin to unleash
Technologies which we may not be able
you know this is the this they're riding
the tiger situation do you want to
unleash Artificial Intelligence on the
human genome
um do we really want to know do we
really want to get report cards
for our children uh that say that they
have a five percent propensity or ten
percent propensity of developing
something or the other and again I come
back to the you know the heisenbergen
principle you know which is that if you
know does it mean that you will
therefore change the your relationship
to that child
um so
I don't mean to have a diff I don't have
a simple answer to your question I'm not
going to say you know let's have a
national policy that does this and
doesn't do that uh my my the point that
I raise in the book is is that we that
um I raise the considerations uh that
are that are important in this Arena and
I remind people that personalizing
Eugenics it just shifts the locus but it
doesn't shift the the it doesn't shift
the responsibility
hi so I'm Kea
um so kind of the Pinnacle of
americanism and how we uphold our
democracy here is debating diametrically
opposed views and that's kind of how we
inform ourselves and determine our
futures and right now we live in the
midst of this debate of science-based
policy versus politics-based facts or
alternative facts if you may
um if I may um and on that side of
um politics-based facts there ought to
be some rhetoric against this um genetic
intervention in the government how do
you predict that type of rhetoric will
play a role in our progress in genetic
intervention so let me understand the
question are you saying are you saying
that the
ah
that the rhetoric against genetic-based
intervention and the the rhetoric for
genetic based intervention should have a
platform I don't understand what you're
trying to oh sorry um I was just
wondering because we live in the mid
-science is contra
that type of rhetoric will influence
this movement so so part of the answer
is again if you if if you want to
correct the the the tide of the
post-fact generation you have to learn
the facts and we have to learn the facts
if we don't learn the facts we will be
only victims of the post-fact generation
because we won't know what the facts are
so
um
the part of the correction I think is to
take a step away
from the uh from the from from the
heated and often
um
factually incorrect
um uh swirl of news and ask the question
what do we know what we what we do what
don't we know and again I'll remind you
I mean the the their chapters upon
chapters on things like race things like
you know what we know and don't know
about about our identity what we know
and don't know about how much things are
determined and not determined in our
genomes
um so this is just to say that um
I think the in the in the post uh fact
Universe it only behooves us more to
read more to read more science to learn
more science
um science is a is a conversation which
ultimately the good thing about it is
that it retains the capacity to disprove
itself
um to say it's to say it's it's okay we
can be proved wrong we have criteria by
which we judge whether we're wrong or
right
um that is a very beautiful thing
um and should not be that idea that that
you carry within your yourself within
your discipline
the capacity to say you're right I was
absolutely wrong about this
um is a very beautiful thing
um and to uh degenerate that
um by claiming rightness all the time by
claiming the right to be right all the
time does it does an enormous disservice
to this thing that we've been building
for six 700 800 years it's a terrible
thing
um so I feel badly and I feel sorry
um for a culture where the capacity to
be to be disproved has become a
liability
um it's a terrible thing anyway that's
fine two bits about it
hi my name is glennis kirkmeyer and in
listening to some of the ethical
questions they're bringing up it seems
to me the many if not most of them are
irrelevant if abortion isn't an option
uh because who cares if you know that
your kids have higher risks if you're
forced to
bring every single fertilized egg as far
as it will go so first what is your
reaction to that and second why do you
avoid using the word abortion itself I
don't avoid using the word I think the
point about this is that in fact a
genetic
um
I I think
um I think the the Technologies
um are actually obviating the need to
abort fetuses
um the genetic pre-implantation
diagnosis you can call it what it is I
mean I can tell you I can describe it
mechanically it is the capacity to
decipher genetic information from an
embryo or potentially from an egg before
it even is fertilized so
um for the longest time the the only
known method of genetic intervention was
in fact abortion
um and uh and in fact as you very well
know syndromes like down syndrome and
other genetic aberrations uh were in
fact I
discussed it at length in in the book
what's happened with pre-implantation
genetic diagnosis is that it's changed
the it's it's changed the focus you can
call it what you will but I'm just going
I'm describing the process mechanically
to you and that is the idea that you can
sequence genetic information from a from
an embryo and choose not to implant the
embryo in the first place
it is not clear to me personally whether
it obviates or doesn't obvious the
ethical questions around fetuses but
what is clear to me at least is that the
mechanics are very different from uh
from abortion as we understood it in you
know 10 15 20 years from now it seems to
be that it seems to me that more and
more of the technology will move towards
pre-implantation diagnosis and genetic
interventions
as we move forward into the future that
seems to be the natural history of this
process I think we have time for one
more question so over here
uh with the rapid development of DNA
sequencing and lower cost personal
genomic sequencing where do you see do
you see the prospects where at Birth
each citizen would have to have a full
genetic sequence supplied just as you
see a little baby's footprint and
fingerprints and blood type will this be
something that is in our future where
there'll be a consistent uh permanent
record of who you are at least in that
genomic book so
um as I said the the first uh our first
attempts to do this have been small
scale and
to me at least they haven't fulfilled
their promise so the first attempts to
do this to sequence genomes and to
determine uh future risks from it have
been have been small scale and they
haven't fulfilled their promising part
because we don't know enough about it
um the uh even in diseases like cancer
where the fundamentally genetic disease
the early Trials of using genetic
information from your cancer and using
that information to direct therapy have
been sobering to say the least
um but that is only because I think and
they're people who defer um
that is for several reasons
number one reason is that genes are not
the only players in this and I talk
about this extensively genes intersect
with environments and chance and
triggers to ultimately determine uh
important features of of of human beings
but number two and number three are
important so that's number one those are
fundamental constraints on the system
but number two and number three is that
so far we don't have enough information
um imagine if we were to sequence a
million genomes or 10 million genomes
and begin to create a fate map of human
beings asking the question what is the
predictive value in the human genome how
can you predict what your genome says
about your future but not do this in
five cases 10 cases 20 30 50 cases but
as the cost of sequencing drops to a
hundred dollars a person
um ten dollars a person uh begin to do
this for tens of millions of people
and then the last piece of this is what
if we start as I said before unleashing
uh things that are not evident to the
human eye but might be evident to a deep
learning algorithms uh on this
um what if I began to now unleash that
power
um onto those 10 million pieces of
information start mining that data um
and the question I keep asking is do you
want to be do you want to be in that
world do you want to live in that world
in which you've unleashed the power of
uh deep learning and and and and genetic
sequencing on your children
um what will we do as we as we
as we move forward Gene sequencing costs
drop and so you begin to have this
situation where you create the vision of
a human being before that human being
has
actualized that vision
uh I don't need to tell you that that is
a dangerous thing
um as a physician I can also tell you
that can be very powerful thing
who wouldn't like to know who wouldn't
like to predict a heightened risk of
cancer
breast cancer and thereby screen and
detected as early as possible in a
selected cohort of patients who wouldn't
like to do that but on the other hand if
we start thinking about this more
generally more globally it seems to me
that some of the questions there are are
deeper and more and provoke more
thinking than we even have we've we
haven't digested that idea in its
fullness
so whether you are interested in
understanding this important vocabulary
that all of us need or whether you're
interested in the themes of of an
amazing chronology of and plot line
around the science of the gene or
whether you're interested in the ethical
dilemmas and challenges uh the book is
amazing I encourage you all to read it
and I'd like to ask you to join me in
thanking so thank you so much thanks
thank you